we're going to speak to Osama Haman he's
a senior Hamas representative he's
joining us on the phone thank you for
being with us um in order to be able to
get people back to the negotiating table
the impression I get is that that there
are going to have to be many more
guarantees given by both sides but of
course Hamas plays a key role in that
what guarantees would you be able to
give to ensure that Israel would stop
its current
attacks well in fact there is no need to
talk about the guarantees from the
Palestinian side including Hamas because
we are the side who are is being
attacked every day all the time we were
we are bombed by the Israelis our
civilians are being killed and the
Israeli side who undermines all the
efforts which which was uh uh going
through in the last few days in fact
every day in the last seven seven days
of the temporary ceasefire Israel
was uh acting in a way to undermine the
whole process they attacked a few days
ago they keep the fly the the air jets
in the air two days ago and in in every
day they are making the more pressure on
the Palestinian side in the last night
yesterday we were talking about the
extending of the tber ceas fire we were
very clear uh about some options which
was uh uh suggested by the mediators we
accepted three suggestions but all those
three suggestions were rejected by the
Israelis so what can you ask about more
than
this we were and we are still positive
towards all the efforts but the Israelis
who undermined all this and I think they
relay on the support of the United
States especially after the visit of
blinkin to the region MH I understand
that Qatar and Egypt as well as the us
but particularly katat and Egypt are
working hard to try to restart some sort
of negotiating process have you been in
contact with Qatar and Egypt with regard
to that negotiating
process uh yes we are still connected
and we heard from both Qatar and Egypt
that they will continue their efforts
uh we we we supported that and uh we
we've told them both that we are ready
to be more positive but we have to be
sure that the will of the United States
is really to have to make an end for the
Israeli attack against the Palestinians
and against Gazza because everyone knows
that the things were going with some
obstacles but when blinkin had his uh
last visit to the region with with his
uh uh statements it was clear that the
the the the the situation will be
changed and that happened directly the
the next
day can I just be clear on what you're
you're saying that you're acknowledging
the efforts being made by Qatar and
Egypt but if I understand it correctly
you think it's the US which really holds
the key to getting a ceasefire back on
track yes we we believe that the United
States is undermining the the process
also and they are trying to get more
benefit from this temporary cph and from
the
efforts from the Egyptian and the K side
I think they are the most important key
side who can make an in for the Israeli
attack against G they can at least tell
the Israelis enough is enough if you
contined like this we will not send
weapons to you we will not protect you
in the Security Council but they are
still protecting them in the security
Council they are still giving them the
the green light to uh continue their
attacks against GDA by saying they have
the right to defend themselves and
everyone knows according to the
international law the occupier has no
right to talk about selfdefense because
he is the occupier he is the attack the
attacker this is the international law
if the United States respect the
international law
Israel has constantly said that Hamas
uses Palestinians as human Shields given
the level of intensity that we're seeing
from the bombardments from Israeli
military uh at the moment what can Hamas
do to try to protect Palestinians in
Gaza well as everyone knows the
Israelis uh built all what they are
doing on lies they have lied they have
said that the hospitals are the centers
for the militants of Hamas and it's the
control center for the militants they
took over all the hospitals they
destroyed a shifa hospital and they
found nothing they destroyed Indonesia
hospital and they found nothing in fact
they knew that there is nothing but they
were lying in order to create a case
which can uh convince the International
Community that they have the right to do
this
now everyone knows that they are lying
they are still talking about hamash
using the civilians as Shields what
about the Israelis who are attacking the
civilians on purpose no one is talking
about that no one is talking about
bombing uh buildings with civilians no
one is talking about bombing the the the
the schools which raise the flag of the
un uh where don't there is no militance
there not according to Hamas but
according to the intern to to the United
Nation so I I I want to say that the
Israelis are lying they are talking
about that everyone knows that they have
no evidence because this is not a fact
it's only a
lie the one who is using the the
civilians to make pressure on Hamas and
on the Palestinian leadership is the
Israelis by killing more and more
civilians including women and children
we are now several weeks past the attack
of October the 7th looking back at what
has happened over the following weeks
after that attack is Hamas still
convinced that it did the right thing on
October the
7th well uh the question is supposed to
be is the Israelis are still convinced
that they have to continue as an
occupiers for the
Palestinians is the International
Community still convinced that he's
supposed to prot protect Israel as an
occupier is the United States still
supporting the occupation for Palestine
killing the the the will of the
Palestinians to have their own dependent
sovereign state with Jerusalem as a
capital the Palestinians are defending
themselves they can't do nothing more
than defending themselves when they are
attacked when they are being killed when
they are Under The Siege when there are
thousands of their children women in the
Israeli jails what they are supposed to
do they have either to defend themselves
or to accept that and die in silent we
will not die in silent we will resist
the occupation we will do our best to to
defend our national goals to liberate
our nation and the question is supposed
to be what about making an end for the
occupation what about the liberation of
the Palestinians from this
incubation they holding of captives had
given Hamas leverage in this conflict we
have released many of those uh those
captives how much leverage does Hamas
still have in this
conflict well I I believe we are not
talking about the the situation as a
leverage we are talking about the
situation as a trive from the
Palestinian side including Hamas to
survive facing this occupation who is
threatening the Palestinians with a
nuclear bomb as it was said by one of
the ministers in the cabinet this is the
threat which we are facing and I assure
you the bombardment in the last 50 days
is twice double the hoshima nuclear bomb
this is what we are facing and this is
what we are trying to protect our people
from so we have said from day number one
the 8th of October that those captives
they are not prisoners they are not war
prisoners like the soldiers we are ready
to send them back they are not in the
hands of Hamas but we are ready to bring
them from everywhere and to send them to
their families the one who said no was n
he expect that he can create a story
about that everyone know was watching
the the people who were released how
they were feeling conf
how they were talking about the
treatment of Hamas while and on the
other side the prisoners of Hamas in the
Israeli jails are being treated badly
six of them were killed in the last 60
days and all those prisoners are under a
very hard situation this is what we are
talking about uh Hamas is not trying to
have leverage Hamas is trying to protect
the Palestinians and on on their way to
have their Liberation and their building
their own independent state Haman is
senior Hamas spokesman thank you very
much indeed